Updated: Port Mastg test 0090 testing file integrity checks (#3871)
OWASP/mastg: demos/ios/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASTG-DEMO-0x01/MASTG-DEMO-0x01.md

title: Running Security-Sensitive Code Without Source Code Integrity Checks
code: [swift]
id: MASTG-DEMO-0x01
test: MASTG-TEST-0x01
kind: fail
---

## Sample

The sample makes a security-sensitive decision (a license check) but never computes or verifies a hash over its own code at runtime. As a result, the app cannot detect whether its binary has been patched.

{{ MastgTest.swift }}

## Steps

1. Unzip the app package and locate the main binary file (@MASTG-TECH-0058), which in this case is `./Payload/MASTestApp.app/MASTestApp`.
2. Open the app binary with @MASTG-TOOL-0073 with the `-i` option to run this script.

{{ source_integrity.r2 }}

{{ run.sh }}

## Observation

The output shows that the app contains a security-sensitive routine (a license check) but contains no references to source code integrity APIs such as `dladdr`, `CC_SHA256`, or `CC_SHA512` applied to its own code.

{{ output.asm }}

## Evaluation

The test case fails because the app makes a security-sensitive decision but never computes or verifies a hash over its own `__TEXT/__text` section. The import table contains no source code integrity APIs, so the app cannot detect if its binary has been patched.

> ### Exploitation

Reviewer: To be re-added later, right?

Author: yes, that was before the specs branch

You can confirm the missing integrity check by patching the security-sensitive routine and observing that the app still runs:

1. Use @MASTG-TECH-0065 to locate the `isLicenseValid` comparison in the disassembly.

> 2. Use @MASTG-TECH-0147 to patch the binary so the check always grants access (for example, force the comparison to return `true`).

Reviewer 2: For the goal of this test, I’d prefer a dynamic and less invasive validation method, such as Frida hooking or LLDB. Static patching plus re-signing can introduce unrelated side effects, like changing team ID, entitlements, or bundle identifier, which can break Keychain access for example.

It's okay though, just personal preference.

Author: Makes sense @sgIOlas . I can move the evaluation to frooky. 
For now I will skip the left suggestions on Demos until the iteration happens.

Are you ok with the Tests' content for now?

Reviewer 2: Tests look good to me as they are. I had issues with the copilot PR since it only did API xref checking without any context but since you also added manual validation to the test it's fine.

Reviewer: Please open an issue for this as a follow-up. Thanks!

> 2. Use @MASTG-TECH-0147 to patch the binary so the check always grants access (for example, force the comparison to return `true`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Use @MASTG-TECH-0095 to hook or patch the app-owned code identified in step 1, so the check always grants access (for example, force the comparison to return `true`).
```

> 3. Use @MASTG-TECH-0092 to re-sign and repackage the patched app, then reinstall it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Launch the app with any key and observe that it grants premium access. The app never detected the patch because it has no source code integrity check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Use the app while hooking the license check logic and observe that it grants premium access. The app never detected the patch because it has no source code integrity check.
```

> ## Fix

Reviewer: To be re-added later, right?
